feat: precondition guides (#91)
sapphiredev/website: docs/Guide/preconditions/creating-your-own-preconditions.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Creating your own preconditions
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Just as we did in both [Creating Commands][creating-commands] and [Creating Listeners][creating-listeners], we will
> start by creating a `preconditions` subdirectory in your project's entry point directory. Inside, we'll make an
> `OwnerOnly` file.

Reviewer: The purpose comment is probably redundant if you apply this

```suggestion
Just as we did in both [Creating Commands][creating-commands] and [Creating Listeners][creating-listeners], we will
start by creating a `preconditions` subdirectory in your project's entry point directory. For this guide, we'll be building out
an `OwnerOnly` precondition, that prevents anyone but the application owner from running the command.
```

Your directory should now look something like this:

```bash {9-10}
├── node_modules
├── package.json
└── src
    ├── commands
    │   └── ping.js
    ├── index.js
    ├── listeners
    │   └── ready.js
    └── preconditions
        └── OwnerOnly.js
```

The purpose of our `OwnerOnly` precondition is just as the name suggests: to check if the user is the bot owner. It can

> be used for developer commands, such as `eval`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be used for developer commands, such as commands that evaluate expressions or present internal debugging information.
```

        └── OwnerOnly.js
```

The purpose of our `OwnerOnly` precondition is just as the name suggests: to check if the user is the bot owner.
It can be used for developer commands, such as `eval`.

## Creating a Precondition class

Preconditions are made by extending the Sapphire [`Precondition`](precondition) class and exporting it.

<Tabs groupId="language-choice">
<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript
const { Precondition } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class OwnerOnlyPrecondition extends Precondition {};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

> ```javascript {4-10}

Reviewer 2: ```suggest
```javascript
```

  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using Preconditions in Commands

To attach a precondition to a command, you simply have to input its name in an array in the command's
[`preconditions`][preconditions-option] option.

<Tabs groupId="language-choice">
<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript {7}
const { Command } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
    });
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  public constructor(context: Command.Context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Now, if someone who is not the bot owner executes the ping command, nothing will happen!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if someone who is not the bot owner executes the `ping` command, nothing will happen!
```

Reviewer 3: Bumping this because I have no idea if it's actually resolved due to the merge markers

[here][preconditions-augment].

<!--
  TODO: Once we have a dedicated TypeScript page this should link to that instead of a code example.
  Including why augmenting with `never` works and the difference between that and augmenting with an object.
-->

:::

By default, no error message will be sent or logged when a command is denied because of a precondition. To learn how to
configure this, please read [Reporting Precondition Failures][reporting-precondition-failure].

## Advanced Usage

Sapphire also has a builtin system for advanced conditional precondition logic through nested arrays. By default, all
preconditions in the given array must pass for the command to be run. However, you can use nested arrays to create `OR`
functionality. This could be useful if you'd like a command to be run if the user is either a moderator _or_ an admin.

Furthermore, if you create a nested array within a nested array, you'll receive `AND` functionality once more. Arrays
can be nested infinitely with the same pattern for optimal control over your preconditions.

Consider the following array of preconditions:

:::warning

> None of the above preconditions are builtin, and you'd have to create them separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of the following preconditions are bundled with Sapphire; as such you'd have to create them yourself!
```

:::

```js
[['AdminOnly', ['ModOnly', 'OwnerOnly']], 'InVoiceChannel'];
```

> For a command with these preconditions to pass the denial checks, the `InVoiceChannel` precondition must pass, as well

Reviewer: TODO for us Devs: Maybe we can borrow a page from prisma's $and/$or/$not and provide that as an option too because by the gods this array stuff is barely readable @sapphiredev/developers

Reviewer 3: I've never liked it either but in the infinite wisdom of @kyranet he thinks it's readable.

Reviewer: Well TOOOO BAD he's not the only one making decisions :D
Can you make an issue in framework for this?

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/sapphiredev/framework/issues/334

---
sidebar_position: 0
title: Creating your own preconditions
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Preconditions are classes that will determine whether or not a command should be blocked according to certain conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preconditions are classes that will determine whether or not a command should be ran according to certain conditions.
```

> condition. Sapphire has many built in preconditions ready for use that are outlined in the coming pages, such as for

Author: markdown lint yells at me if I do this

└── src
    ├── commands
    │   └── ping.js
    ├── index.js
    ├── listeners
    │   └── ready.js
    └── preconditions
        └── OwnerOnly.js
```

The purpose of our `OwnerOnly` precondition is just as the name suggests: to check if the user is the bot owner. It can
be used for developer commands, such as `eval`.

## Creating a Precondition class

Preconditions are made by extending the Sapphire [`Precondition`][precondition] class and exporting it.

<Tabs groupId="language-choice">
<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript
const { Precondition } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class OwnerOnlyPrecondition extends Precondition {};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript
import { Precondition } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class OwnerOnlyPrecondition extends Precondition {}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { Precondition } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class OwnerOnlyPrecondition extends Precondition {}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Next, we can create a [`run`][preconditionrun] function to execute our logic. This function should either return

> [`this.ok()`][preconditionok] or [`this.error(...)`][preconditionerror] to signify whether the command should be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`this.ok()`][preconditionok] to signify the condition has passed, or [`this.error(...)`][preconditionerror] to signify the command should be denied.
```

> blocked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

To attach a precondition to a command, you simply have to input its name in an array in the command's
[`preconditions`][preconditions-option] option.

<Tabs groupId="language-choice">
<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript {7}
const { Command } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
    });
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {6}
import { ApplyOptions } from '@sapphire/decorators';
import { Command, CommandOptions } from '@sapphire/framework';

@ApplyOptions<CommandOptions>({
  // ...
  preconditions: ['OwnerOnly']
})
export class PingCommand extends Command {}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now, if someone who is not the bot owner executes the ping command, nothing will happen!

:::caution

> For TypeScript users, there's an extra step to make this work. To increase the security of Sapphire's types, you'll need

Reviewer: We may wanna explain why augmenting with `never` works and the diff between that and augmenting with an object (in a ts section?)

to augment Sapphire's [`Preconditions`][preconditions-interface] interface. Please see an official example

> [here][preconditions-augment].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[here][preconditions-augment].

<!-- TODO: Once we have a dedicated TypeScript page this should link to that instead of a code example -->
```

So we have a reminder to add it later

:::

By default, no error message will be sent or logged when a command is denied because of a precondition. To learn how to
configure this, please read [Reporting Precondition Failures][reporting-precondition-failure].

## Advanced Usage

Sapphire also has a builtin system for advanced conditional precondition logic through nested arrays. By default, all
preconditions in the given array must pass for the command to be run. However, you can use nested arrays to create `OR`
functionality. This could be useful if you'd like a command to be run if the user is either a moderator _or_ an admin.

Furthermore, if you create a nested array within a nested array, you'll receive `AND` functionality once more. Arrays
can be nested infinitely with the same pattern for optimal control over your preconditions.

Consider the following array of preconditions:

```js
[['AdminOnly', ['ModOnly', 'OwnerOnly']], 'InVoiceChannel'];
```

:::note

None of the above preconditions are builtin, and you'd have to create them separately.

> :::

Reviewer: This should be before the code block, and a warning instead of a note

> For the command to be run, the `InVoiceChannel` precondition must pass, as well as `AdminOnly` _or_ both `OwnerOnly` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a command with these preconditions to be pass the denial checks, the `InVoiceChannel` precondition must pass, as well as `AdminOnly` _or_ both `OwnerOnly` and
```

> as `AdminOnly` _or_ both `OwnerOnly` and

Reviewer: and..what?

title: Creating your own preconditions
---

<<<<<<< HEAD
Just as we did in both [Creating Commands][creating-commands] and [Creating Listeners][creating-listeners], we will
start by creating a `preconditions` subdirectory in your project's entry point directory. Inside, we'll make an `OwnerOnly`
file.

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Just as we did in both [Creating Commands][creating-commands] and [Creating Listeners][creating-listeners], we will
start by creating a `preconditions` subdirectory in your project's entry point directory. Inside, we'll make an
`OwnerOnly` file.

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

Preconditions are made by extending the Sapphire [`Precondition`][precondition] class and exporting it.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

import { Precondition } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class OwnerOnlyPrecondition extends Precondition {}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

Next, we can create a [`run`][preconditionrun] function to execute our logic. This function should either return
[`this.ok()`][preconditionok] to signify the condition has passed, or [`this.error(...)`][preconditionerror] to signify
the command should be denied.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{4-8}|{4-8}

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {4-8}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

## Using Preconditions in Commands

To attach a precondition to a command, you simply have to input its name in an array in the command's
[`preconditions`][preconditions-option] option.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{7}|{7}

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {7}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

:::warning

> None of the following preconditions are bundled with Sapphire; as such you'd have to create them yourself!

Author: oh so now you allow screamy scream get your story straight O-o /j

:::warning

<<<<<<< HEAD
None of the above preconditions are builtin, and you'd have to create them separately.

> =======

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

None of the following preconditions are bundled with Sapphire; as such you'd have to create them yourself!

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer 3: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)
